README.md, before:

# Disagreement Attention and Alternating Deep Supervision <br/> (Medical Images Segmentation)

Official Pytorch implementation utilised on the paper: Disagreement attention: Let us agree to disagree on computed tomography segmentation.

<em markdown="1">The schematics of the proposed Mixed-Embedded Disagreement Attention (MEDA) [^5].</em>
<p align="center" dir="auto">
	<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="docs/images/mixed_embedded_da.png">
		<img src="docs/images/mixed_embedded_da.png" width="350" border="10" alt="Mixed-Embedded Disagreement Attention (MEDA)"/>
	</a>
</p>

<em markdown="1">The proposed Alternating Deep Supervision (ADSV) framework [^5].</em>
<p align="center" dir="auto">
	<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="docs/images/adsv.png">
		<img src="docs/images/adsv.png" width="350" border="10" alt="Alternating Deep Supervision (ADSV)"/>
	</a>
</p>

In general terms the application contains:

1. The **Standard attention gate** (AttentionBlock) and novel **Disagreement-based attention modules** (PureDABlock, EmbeddedDABlock and MixedEmbeddedDABlock).

2. **XAttentionUNet**: A modified Attention UNet that receives the attention class to be employed as an argument.

3. **XAttentionUNet_ADSV**: A modified XAttentionUNet that employs the proposed Alternating Deep Supervision (ADSV).

4. UNet2D, UNet3D, Attention Unet, UNet with grid attention.

5. The dataset processors and model managers have been moved to [github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils).

## Installation

1. Clone this repository

2. [OPTIONAL] Create your virtual enviroment and activate it

3. Install Pytorch 1.10.0 following the instructions provided on the page [pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/#v1100](https://pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/#v1100).

4. Install [OpenSlide](https://openslide.org/download/)

5. Install the requirements

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

6. Make a copy of the configuration file, review it thoroughly and update it properly (especially `PROJECT_PATH`, `CT82_SAVING_PATH` and `LITS17_SAVING_PATH`)

   ```bash
   cp settings.py.template settings.py
   ```


## Usage

The main rule is running everything from the `main.py`. Thus, code for processing the datasets and training the models is provided in the `main.py`. You should carefully review it, follow the instructions and only uncomment the code you need to execute.

### Running tests

1. Make `get_test_datasets.sh` executable and download the testing datasets

	``` shell
	chmod +x get_test_datasets.sh
	./get_test_datasets.sh
	```

2. Make `run_tests.sh` executable and run it:

	```shell
	chmod +x run_tests.sh
	./run_tests.sh
	```

### Running TensorBoard

1. Make `run_tensorboard.sh` executable and run it:

	```bash
	chmod +x run_tensorboard.sh
	./run_tensorboard.sh
	```


### Debugging

Just open your `settings.py` and set `DEBUG = True`. This will set the log level to debug and your dataloader will not use workers so you can use `pdb.set_trace()` without any problem.

## Main Features

**Note**: Always see the class or function definition to pass the correct parameters and see all available options.

### TCIA Pancreas CT-82 dataset [^1][^2][^3]

The instructions to get the dataset are available at
[github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/ct82/README.md](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/ct82/README.md).

The code to process the dataset is fully integrated with the configuration file. Thus, you need to locate the code to process the CT-82 dataset in the `main.py`, uncomment, and follow the provided instructions.

**Before training**: Do not forget to configurate the ModelMGR to employ the CT-82:

```python
model = ModelMGR(
	...
	labels_data=CT82Labels,
	...
	dataset=CT82Dataset,
	...
	dataset_kwargs={
		'train_path': settings.CT82_TRAIN_PATH,
		'val_path': settings.CT82_VAL_PATH,
		'test_path': settings.CT82_TEST_PATH,
		'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
		'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
	},
	...
)
```

### LiTS17 dataset [^4]
Ensure to update your `settings.py` to employ the LiTS17 Liver or Lesion datasets by locating and uncommenting the LiTS17 dataset configuration to be utilised and commenting the other LiTS17 dataset configuration. E.g. To employ the LiTS17 Liver dataset uncomment the code inside the `LITS17 Liver 1 32x80x80-crops dataset` code block in the `settings.py` and ensure that the dataset configuration inside the `LITS17 Lesion 16 32x160x160-crops dataset` code block is commented out. **IMPORTANT:** If the LiTS17 lesion and liver datasets are or will be at different locations, update the `LITS17_SAVING_PATH` appropriately.

The instructions to get the dataset are available at
[github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/lits17/README.md](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/lits17/README.md).

The code to process the dataset is fully integrated with the configuration file. Thus, you need to locate the code for the dataset you want to generate in the `main.py`, uncomment, and follow the provided instructions.

**Before training**: Do not forget to configurate the ModelMGR to employ the LiTS17 liver or Lesion datasets:

* Using LiTS17 Liver:
```python
model = ModelMGR(
	...
	labels_data=LiTS17OnlyLiverLabels,
	...
	dataset=LiTS17Dataset,
	...
	dataset_kwargs={
		'train_path': settings.LITS17_TRAIN_PATH,
		'val_path': settings.LITS17_VAL_PATH,
		'test_path': settings.LITS17_TEST_PATH,
		'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
		'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
	},
	...
)
```

* Using LiTS17 Lesion crops:
```python
model = ModelMGR(
	...
	labels_data=LiTS17OnlyLesionLabels,
	...
	dataset=LiTS17CropDataset,
	...
	dataset_kwargs={
		'train_path': settings.LITS17_TRAIN_PATH,
		'val_path': settings.LITS17_VAL_PATH,
		'test_path': settings.LITS17_TEST_PATH,
		'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
		'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
	},
	...
)
```

### Predict masks for whole CT scans and visualize them
1. Modify your model manager to support these feature using the `CT3DNIfTIMixin`. E.g.:

``` python
class CTModelMGR(CT3DNIfTIMixin, ModelMGR):
    pass
```

2. Replace your old ModelMGR by the new one and provide and initial weights

``` python
mymodel = CTModelMGR(
	...
	ini_checkpoint='<path to your best checkpoint>',
	...
)
```

3. Make the 3D mask prediction

``` python
mymodel.predict('<path to your CT folder>/CT_119.nii.gz')
```

4. Visualize all the 2D masks

``` python
id_ = '119'

mymodel.plot_2D_ct_gt_preds(
	ct_path=f'<path to your CT folder>/CT_{id_}.nii.gz',
	gt_path=f'<path to your CT folder>/label_{id_}.nii.gz',
    pred_path=f'pred_CT_{id_}.nii.gz'
)
```


### Training, Testing and Plotting on TensorBoard
Use the `ModelMGR` to train models and make predictions.

``` python
# NOTE: for XAttentionUNet_ADSV employ ADSVModelMGR instead of ModelMGR

class CTModelMGR(CT3DNIfTIMixin, ModelMGR):
    pass

model7 = CTModelMGR(
    # UNet3D ##############################################################
    # model=UNet3D,
    # model_kwargs=dict(feature_scale=1, n_channels=1, n_classes=1, is_batchnorm=True),
    # XAttentionUNet & XAttentionUNet_ADSV ###############################
    model=XAttentionUNet,
    model_kwargs=dict(
        n_channels=1, n_classes=1, bilinear=False, batchnorm_cls=get_batchnormxd_class(),
        init_type=UNet3InitMethod.KAIMING, data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS,
        da_block_cls=intra_model.MixedEmbeddedDABlock,  # EmbeddedDABlock, PureDABlock, AttentionBlock
        dsv=True,
    ),
    # UNet_Att_DSV ########################################################
    # model=UNet_Att_DSV,
    # model_kwargs=dict(
    #     feature_scale=1, n_classes=1, n_channels=1, is_batchnorm=True,
    #     attention_block_cls=SingleAttentionBlock, data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS
    # ),
    # UNet_Grid_Attention #################################################
    # model=UNet_Grid_Attention,
    # model_kwargs=dict(
    #     feature_scale=1, n_classes=1, n_channels=1, is_batchnorm=True,
    #     data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS
    # ),
    # remaining configuration #############################################
    cuda=settings.CUDA,
    multigpus=settings.MULTIGPUS,
    patch_replication_callback=settings.PATCH_REPLICATION_CALLBACK,
    epochs=settings.EPOCHS,
    intrain_val=2,
    optimizer=torch.optim.Adam,
    optimizer_kwargs=dict(lr=1e-4, betas=(0.9, 0.999), weight_decay=1e-6),
    sanity_checks=False,
    labels_data=LiTS17OnlyLiverLabels,  # LiTS17OnlyLesionLabels,  # CT82Labels
    data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS,
    dataset=LiTS17Dataset,  # LiTS17CropDataset,  # CT82Dataset
    dataset_kwargs={
        'train_path': settings.LITS17_TRAIN_PATH,  # settings.CT82_TRAIN_PATH
        'val_path': settings.LITS17_VAL_PATH,   # settings.CT82_VAL_PATH
        'test_path': settings.LITS17_TEST_PATH,  # settings.CT82_TEST_PATH
        'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
        'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
    },
    train_dataloader_kwargs={
        'batch_size': settings.TOTAL_BATCH_SIZE, 'shuffle': True, 'num_workers': settings.NUM_WORKERS,
        'pin_memory': False
    },
    testval_dataloader_kwargs={
        'batch_size': settings.TOTAL_BATCH_SIZE, 'shuffle': False, 'num_workers': settings.NUM_WORKERS,
        'pin_memory': False, 'drop_last': True
    },
    lr_scheduler=torch.optim.lr_scheduler.StepLR,
    lr_scheduler_kwargs={'step_size': 250, 'gamma': 0.5},
    lr_scheduler_track=LrShedulerTrack.NO_ARGS,
    criterions=[
        loss_functions.BceDiceLoss(with_logits=True),
    ],
    mask_threshold=0.5,
    metrics=settings.get_metrics(),
    metric_mode=MetricEvaluatorMode.MAX,
    earlystopping_kwargs=dict(min_delta=1e-3, patience=np.inf, metric=True),  # patience=10
    checkpoint_interval=0,
    train_eval_chkpt=False,
    last_checkpoint=True,
    ini_checkpoint='',
    dir_checkpoints=os.path.join(settings.DIR_CHECKPOINTS, 'exp1'),
    tensorboard=False,
    # TODO: there a bug that appeared once when plotting to disk after a long training
    # anyway I can always plot from the checkpoints :)
    plot_to_disk=False,
    plot_dir=settings.PLOT_DIRECTORY,
    memory_print=dict(epochs=settings.EPOCHS//2),
)
model7()
```

### Showing Logs Summary from a Checkpoint
Use the `ModelMGR.print_data_logger_summary` method to do it.

``` python
model = ModelMGR(<your settings>, ini_checkpoint='chkpt_X.pth.tar', dir_checkpoints=settings.DIR_CHECKPOINTS)
model.print_data_logger_summary()
```

The summary will be a table like this one

| key         | Validation   |   corresponding training value |
|-------------|--------------|--------------------------------|
| Best metric | 0.7495       |                         0.7863 |
| Min loss    | 0.2170       |                         0.1691 |
| Max LR      |              |                         0.001  |
| Min LR      |              |                         1e-07  |


## LOGGING
This application employs [logzero](https://logzero.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). Thus, some functionalities can print extra data. To enable this just open your `settings.py` and set `DEBUG = True`. By default, the log level is set to [logging.INFO](https://docs.python.org/2/library/logging.html#logging-levels).

## Reference:
You are free to utilise this program or any of its components. If so, please reference the following paper:
[Disagreement attention: Let us agree to disagree on computed tomography segmentation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809423002021).


[^1]: Holger R. Roth, Amal Farag, Evrim B. Turkbey, Le Lu, Jiamin Liu, and Ronald M. Summers. (2016). Data From Pancreas-CT. The Cancer Imaging Archive. [https://doi.org/10.7937/K9/TCIA.2016.tNB1kqBU](https://doi.org/10.7937/K9/TCIA.2016.tNB1kqBU)
[^2]: Roth HR, Lu L, Farag A, Shin H-C, Liu J, Turkbey EB, Summers RM. DeepOrgan: Multi-level Deep Convolutional Networks for Automated Pancreas Segmentation. N. Navab et al. (Eds.): MICCAI 2015, Part I, LNCS 9349, pp. 556–564, 2015.  ([paper](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.06448.pdf))
[^3]: Clark K, Vendt B, Smith K, Freymann J, Kirby J, Koppel P, Moore S, Phillips S, Maffitt D, Pringle M, Tarbox L, Prior F. The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA): Maintaining and Operating a Public Information Repository, Journal of Digital Imaging, Volume 26, Number 6, December, 2013, pp 1045-1057. DOI: [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-013-9622-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-013-9622-7)
[^4]: P. Bilic et al., “The liver tumor segmentation benchmark (LiTS),” arXiv e-prints, p. arXiv:1901.04056, Jan. 2019. [Online]. Available: [https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.04056](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.04056)
[^5]: Lopez Molina, E. G., Huang, X., & Zhang, Q. (2023). Disagreement attention: Let us agree to disagree on computed tomography segmentation. Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, 84, 104769. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2023.104769](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2023.104769)

Commit message:

README -> links to datasets processors and model managers

README.md, after:

# Disagreement Attention and Alternating Deep Supervision <br/> (Medical Images Segmentation)

Official Pytorch implementation utilised on the paper: Disagreement attention: Let us agree to disagree on computed tomography segmentation.

<em markdown="1">The schematics of the proposed Mixed-Embedded Disagreement Attention (MEDA) [^5].</em>
<p align="center" dir="auto">
	<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="docs/images/mixed_embedded_da.png">
		<img src="docs/images/mixed_embedded_da.png" width="350" border="10" alt="Mixed-Embedded Disagreement Attention (MEDA)"/>
	</a>
</p>

<em markdown="1">The proposed Alternating Deep Supervision (ADSV) framework [^5].</em>
<p align="center" dir="auto">
	<a target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer" href="docs/images/adsv.png">
		<img src="docs/images/adsv.png" width="350" border="10" alt="Alternating Deep Supervision (ADSV)"/>
	</a>
</p>

In general terms the application contains:

1. The **Standard attention gate** (AttentionBlock) and novel **Disagreement-based attention modules** (PureDABlock, EmbeddedDABlock and MixedEmbeddedDABlock).

2. **XAttentionUNet**: A modified Attention UNet that receives the attention class to be employed as an argument.

3. **XAttentionUNet_ADSV**: A modified XAttentionUNet that employs the proposed Alternating Deep Supervision (ADSV).

4. UNet2D, UNet3D, Attention Unet, UNet with grid attention.

5. The dataset processors and model managers for the CT-82 and LiTS17 datasets have been moved to [github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/tree/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/ct82](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/tree/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/ct82) and [github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/tree/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/lits17](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/tree/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/lits17), respectively.

## Installation

1. Clone this repository

2. [OPTIONAL] Create your virtual enviroment and activate it

3. Install Pytorch 1.10.0 following the instructions provided on the page [pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/#v1100](https://pytorch.org/get-started/previous-versions/#v1100).

4. Install [OpenSlide](https://openslide.org/download/)

5. Install the requirements

   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

6. Make a copy of the configuration file, review it thoroughly and update it properly (especially `PROJECT_PATH`, `CT82_SAVING_PATH` and `LITS17_SAVING_PATH`)

   ```bash
   cp settings.py.template settings.py
   ```


## Usage

The main rule is running everything from the `main.py`. Thus, code for processing the datasets and training the models is provided in the `main.py`. You should carefully review it, follow the instructions and only uncomment the code you need to execute.

### Running tests

1. Make `get_test_datasets.sh` executable and download the testing datasets

	``` shell
	chmod +x get_test_datasets.sh
	./get_test_datasets.sh
	```

2. Make `run_tests.sh` executable and run it:

	```shell
	chmod +x run_tests.sh
	./run_tests.sh
	```

### Running TensorBoard

1. Make `run_tensorboard.sh` executable and run it:

	```bash
	chmod +x run_tensorboard.sh
	./run_tensorboard.sh
	```


### Debugging

Just open your `settings.py` and set `DEBUG = True`. This will set the log level to debug and your dataloader will not use workers so you can use `pdb.set_trace()` without any problem.

## Main Features

**Note**: Always see the class or function definition to pass the correct parameters and see all available options.

### TCIA Pancreas CT-82 dataset [^1][^2][^3]

The instructions to get the dataset are available at
[github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/ct82/README.md](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/ct82/README.md).

The code to process the dataset is fully integrated with the configuration file. Thus, you need to locate the code to process the CT-82 dataset in the `main.py`, uncomment, and follow the provided instructions.

**Before training**: Do not forget to configurate the ModelMGR to employ the CT-82:

```python
model = ModelMGR(
	...
	labels_data=CT82Labels,
	...
	dataset=CT82Dataset,
	...
	dataset_kwargs={
		'train_path': settings.CT82_TRAIN_PATH,
		'val_path': settings.CT82_VAL_PATH,
		'test_path': settings.CT82_TEST_PATH,
		'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
		'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
	},
	...
)
```

### LiTS17 dataset [^4]
Ensure to update your `settings.py` to employ the LiTS17 Liver or Lesion datasets by locating and uncommenting the LiTS17 dataset configuration to be utilised and commenting the other LiTS17 dataset configuration. E.g. To employ the LiTS17 Liver dataset uncomment the code inside the `LITS17 Liver 1 32x80x80-crops dataset` code block in the `settings.py` and ensure that the dataset configuration inside the `LITS17 Lesion 16 32x160x160-crops dataset` code block is commented out. **IMPORTANT:** If the LiTS17 lesion and liver datasets are or will be at different locations, update the `LITS17_SAVING_PATH` appropriately.

The instructions to get the dataset are available at
[github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/lits17/README.md](https://github.com/giussepi/gtorch_utils/blob/main/gtorch_utils/datasets/segmentation/datasets/lits17/README.md).

The code to process the dataset is fully integrated with the configuration file. Thus, you need to locate the code for the dataset you want to generate in the `main.py`, uncomment, and follow the provided instructions.

**Before training**: Do not forget to configurate the ModelMGR to employ the LiTS17 liver or Lesion datasets:

* Using LiTS17 Liver:
```python
model = ModelMGR(
	...
	labels_data=LiTS17OnlyLiverLabels,
	...
	dataset=LiTS17Dataset,
	...
	dataset_kwargs={
		'train_path': settings.LITS17_TRAIN_PATH,
		'val_path': settings.LITS17_VAL_PATH,
		'test_path': settings.LITS17_TEST_PATH,
		'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
		'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
	},
	...
)
```

* Using LiTS17 Lesion crops:
```python
model = ModelMGR(
	...
	labels_data=LiTS17OnlyLesionLabels,
	...
	dataset=LiTS17CropDataset,
	...
	dataset_kwargs={
		'train_path': settings.LITS17_TRAIN_PATH,
		'val_path': settings.LITS17_VAL_PATH,
		'test_path': settings.LITS17_TEST_PATH,
		'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
		'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
	},
	...
)
```

### Predict masks for whole CT scans and visualize them
1. Modify your model manager to support these feature using the `CT3DNIfTIMixin`. E.g.:

``` python
class CTModelMGR(CT3DNIfTIMixin, ModelMGR):
    pass
```

2. Replace your old ModelMGR by the new one and provide and initial weights

``` python
mymodel = CTModelMGR(
	...
	ini_checkpoint='<path to your best checkpoint>',
	...
)
```

3. Make the 3D mask prediction

``` python
mymodel.predict('<path to your CT folder>/CT_119.nii.gz')
```

4. Visualize all the 2D masks

``` python
id_ = '119'

mymodel.plot_2D_ct_gt_preds(
	ct_path=f'<path to your CT folder>/CT_{id_}.nii.gz',
	gt_path=f'<path to your CT folder>/label_{id_}.nii.gz',
    pred_path=f'pred_CT_{id_}.nii.gz'
)
```


### Training, Testing and Plotting on TensorBoard
Use the `ModelMGR` to train models and make predictions.

``` python
# NOTE: for XAttentionUNet_ADSV employ ADSVModelMGR instead of ModelMGR

class CTModelMGR(CT3DNIfTIMixin, ModelMGR):
    pass

model7 = CTModelMGR(
    # UNet3D ##############################################################
    # model=UNet3D,
    # model_kwargs=dict(feature_scale=1, n_channels=1, n_classes=1, is_batchnorm=True),
    # XAttentionUNet & XAttentionUNet_ADSV ###############################
    model=XAttentionUNet,
    model_kwargs=dict(
        n_channels=1, n_classes=1, bilinear=False, batchnorm_cls=get_batchnormxd_class(),
        init_type=UNet3InitMethod.KAIMING, data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS,
        da_block_cls=intra_model.MixedEmbeddedDABlock,  # EmbeddedDABlock, PureDABlock, AttentionBlock
        dsv=True,
    ),
    # UNet_Att_DSV ########################################################
    # model=UNet_Att_DSV,
    # model_kwargs=dict(
    #     feature_scale=1, n_classes=1, n_channels=1, is_batchnorm=True,
    #     attention_block_cls=SingleAttentionBlock, data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS
    # ),
    # UNet_Grid_Attention #################################################
    # model=UNet_Grid_Attention,
    # model_kwargs=dict(
    #     feature_scale=1, n_classes=1, n_channels=1, is_batchnorm=True,
    #     data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS
    # ),
    # remaining configuration #############################################
    cuda=settings.CUDA,
    multigpus=settings.MULTIGPUS,
    patch_replication_callback=settings.PATCH_REPLICATION_CALLBACK,
    epochs=settings.EPOCHS,
    intrain_val=2,
    optimizer=torch.optim.Adam,
    optimizer_kwargs=dict(lr=1e-4, betas=(0.9, 0.999), weight_decay=1e-6),
    sanity_checks=False,
    labels_data=LiTS17OnlyLiverLabels,  # LiTS17OnlyLesionLabels,  # CT82Labels
    data_dimensions=settings.DATA_DIMENSIONS,
    dataset=LiTS17Dataset,  # LiTS17CropDataset,  # CT82Dataset
    dataset_kwargs={
        'train_path': settings.LITS17_TRAIN_PATH,  # settings.CT82_TRAIN_PATH
        'val_path': settings.LITS17_VAL_PATH,   # settings.CT82_VAL_PATH
        'test_path': settings.LITS17_TEST_PATH,  # settings.CT82_TEST_PATH
        'cotraining': settings.COTRAINING,
        'cache': settings.DB_CACHE,
    },
    train_dataloader_kwargs={
        'batch_size': settings.TOTAL_BATCH_SIZE, 'shuffle': True, 'num_workers': settings.NUM_WORKERS,
        'pin_memory': False
    },
    testval_dataloader_kwargs={
        'batch_size': settings.TOTAL_BATCH_SIZE, 'shuffle': False, 'num_workers': settings.NUM_WORKERS,
        'pin_memory': False, 'drop_last': True
    },
    lr_scheduler=torch.optim.lr_scheduler.StepLR,
    lr_scheduler_kwargs={'step_size': 250, 'gamma': 0.5},
    lr_scheduler_track=LrShedulerTrack.NO_ARGS,
    criterions=[
        loss_functions.BceDiceLoss(with_logits=True),
    ],
    mask_threshold=0.5,
    metrics=settings.get_metrics(),
    metric_mode=MetricEvaluatorMode.MAX,
    earlystopping_kwargs=dict(min_delta=1e-3, patience=np.inf, metric=True),  # patience=10
    checkpoint_interval=0,
    train_eval_chkpt=False,
    last_checkpoint=True,
    ini_checkpoint='',
    dir_checkpoints=os.path.join(settings.DIR_CHECKPOINTS, 'exp1'),
    tensorboard=False,
    # TODO: there a bug that appeared once when plotting to disk after a long training
    # anyway I can always plot from the checkpoints :)
    plot_to_disk=False,
    plot_dir=settings.PLOT_DIRECTORY,
    memory_print=dict(epochs=settings.EPOCHS//2),
)
model7()
```

### Showing Logs Summary from a Checkpoint
Use the `ModelMGR.print_data_logger_summary` method to do it.

``` python
model = ModelMGR(<your settings>, ini_checkpoint='chkpt_X.pth.tar', dir_checkpoints=settings.DIR_CHECKPOINTS)
model.print_data_logger_summary()
```

The summary will be a table like this one

| key         | Validation   |   corresponding training value |
|-------------|--------------|--------------------------------|
| Best metric | 0.7495       |                         0.7863 |
| Min loss    | 0.2170       |                         0.1691 |
| Max LR      |              |                         0.001  |
| Min LR      |              |                         1e-07  |


## LOGGING
This application employs [logzero](https://logzero.readthedocs.io/en/latest/). Thus, some functionalities can print extra data. To enable this just open your `settings.py` and set `DEBUG = True`. By default, the log level is set to [logging.INFO](https://docs.python.org/2/library/logging.html#logging-levels).

## Reference:
You are free to utilise this program or any of its components. If so, please reference the following paper:
[Disagreement attention: Let us agree to disagree on computed tomography segmentation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1746809423002021).


[^1]: Holger R. Roth, Amal Farag, Evrim B. Turkbey, Le Lu, Jiamin Liu, and Ronald M. Summers. (2016). Data From Pancreas-CT. The Cancer Imaging Archive. [https://doi.org/10.7937/K9/TCIA.2016.tNB1kqBU](https://doi.org/10.7937/K9/TCIA.2016.tNB1kqBU)
[^2]: Roth HR, Lu L, Farag A, Shin H-C, Liu J, Turkbey EB, Summers RM. DeepOrgan: Multi-level Deep Convolutional Networks for Automated Pancreas Segmentation. N. Navab et al. (Eds.): MICCAI 2015, Part I, LNCS 9349, pp. 556–564, 2015.  ([paper](http://arxiv.org/pdf/1506.06448.pdf))
[^3]: Clark K, Vendt B, Smith K, Freymann J, Kirby J, Koppel P, Moore S, Phillips S, Maffitt D, Pringle M, Tarbox L, Prior F. The Cancer Imaging Archive (TCIA): Maintaining and Operating a Public Information Repository, Journal of Digital Imaging, Volume 26, Number 6, December, 2013, pp 1045-1057. DOI: [https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-013-9622-7](https://doi.org/10.1007/s10278-013-9622-7)
[^4]: P. Bilic et al., “The liver tumor segmentation benchmark (LiTS),” arXiv e-prints, p. arXiv:1901.04056, Jan. 2019. [Online]. Available: [https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.04056](https://arxiv.org/abs/1901.04056)
[^5]: Lopez Molina, E. G., Huang, X., & Zhang, Q. (2023). Disagreement attention: Let us agree to disagree on computed tomography segmentation. Biomedical Signal Processing and Control, 84, 104769. [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2023.104769](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.bspc.2023.104769)
